LESSON 1
1.In Spanish, all nouns are either masculine or feminine. Often, nouns end in ‑o if they're masculine and ‑a if they're feminine.
2.Notice how you use el if the word is masculine and la if the word is feminine.
3.It's not just people that are masculine or feminine in Spanish. Objects are, too!
4.Not sure what gender something is? Look at the the! If a word uses el, it's masculine. If it uses la, it's feminine.
5.In English, verb forms change depending on who's doing the action. For example, we say I am, you are, and she is. In Spanish, you do the same thing.
subject         verb(ser)
yo  I           soy     I am
tú  you         eres    you are
él  he          es      he is
ella  she       es      she is


LESSON 2
1.Many Spanish greetings depend on the time of day.
Buenos días
Note that even though Buenos días includes the word día, it's only used in the morning.
You can use Buenas tardes in the afternoon or in the early evening.
Buenas noches can mean both Good evening and Good night.

2.Spanish pronunciation is easier than you think! In general, Spanish  vowels  are always pronounced the same way.
a cama e.g. As in father.
e leche e.g. As in set.
i niño e.g. As in Lisa.
o como e.g. As in gold.
u mucho gusto e.g. As in dude.


LESSON 3
1.Está vs. es
Está and es both mean is. So what's the difference? If you want to say where someone or something is located, use está.
¡El taxi está aquí! The taxi is here!
You also use está when you're talking about something that's only temporarily true.
e.g. El hotel está cerrado. The hotel is closed.

Meanwhile, es is used to describe the qualities of a person or thing.
e.g. El taxi es amarillo. The taxi is yellow.


LESSON 4 (RESTAURANT)
1.Pay special attention to the sounds these letters make in Spanish.
hola Silent, as in hour.
jugo As in help but raspier.
queso As in key.

2.A simple way to ask for the check in Spanish is to say  La cuenta, por favor.
In English, we might ask for a cup of coffee. In Spanish, you do the same thing.
una taza de café. a cup of coffee.
You also use de when you're describing what type of food something is.
un jugo de naranja


LESSON 5
1.Questions
Asking questions in Spanish is easy! Just change the pronunciation of any statement to a question by lifting your voice at the end.
Tú tienes un perro.
¿Tú tienes un perro?
Notice that all questions in Spanish begin with an upside down question mark (¿).

2.Tú vs. tu
Accent marks can be really useful! In Spanish, a word might have a different meaning depending on whether it does or doesn't have an accent mark.
For example, when tú has an accent, it means you.
¿Tú tienes un gato? Do you have a cat?
Without an accent, tu means your.
¡Tu gato es grande! Your cat is big!


LESSON 6
1.Spanish sounds
In Spanish, r has a different sound depending on where it is in a word.
ropa Rolled, as in  marrón (beginning of word).
barato Tap roof of mouth with tongue, as in water (middle or end of word).
Double r (rr) always has a rolled sound.
marrón Rolled r.
You can practice rr by placing the tip of your tongue on the roof of your mouth and exhaling forcefully across the surface of your tongue.
As you do so, release the tip of your tongue so that it lightly flutters against the roof of your mouth. It takes some practice, but you'll get there!

2.Adjectives In Spanish, adjectives usually come after the noun they're describing.
un vestido azul.a blue dress.
una camisa roja.a red shirt.


LESSON 7(Pres Tense 1)
All verb endings change depending on who's doing the action!
subject             verb(hablar)
yo                  hablo
tú                  hablas
él/ella             habla


LESSON 8
1.¡Yo no comprendo!
It's easy to make a negative statement in Spanish: simply say no before the verb.
Yo no estudio inglés.I don't study English.
Lo siento. Yo no comprendo.I'm sorry. I don't understand.

2.¡Quiero hablar español!
Escribir, estudiar, and leer are all verb forms called infinitives.
Yo quiero escribir.I want to write.
In English, infinitives always have the word to at the start (like to study or to read).
But in Spanish, they don't require any extra words. To say I want to study, you'd just say Yo quiero estudiar.
Yo necesito leer.I need to read.


LESSON 9
1.¡Me llamo Duo!
In Spanish, me llamo is used to say my name is. It literally means I call myself.
Me llamo Luna.My name is Luna.
Mucho gusto. Me llamo Pablo.Nice to meet you. My name is Pablo.

2.Adjectives
In Spanish, the endings of adjectives depend on the gender of what they describe.
Miguel es americano.Miguel is American.​
Ana es americana.Ana is American.​

3.¿De dónde eres?
To ask where someone is from, you can say ¿De dónde eres?.
¿De dónde eres, Camila?Where are you from, Camila?​​
¡Soy de México!I'm from Mexico!​


LESSON 10(Greetings)
1.Tú vs. usted
Tú  and   usted  both mean you. So what's the difference? Tú  is used in friendly conversations.​
Juan, ¿cómo estás tú?Juan, how are you?
Meanwhile, usted is used in more formal interactions. ​
Hola, señor. ¿Cómo está usted?Hello, sir. How are you?

2.¿Cómo te llamas?
¿Cómo te llamas?is used to ask What's your name? in informal interactions.​
Hola, ¿cómo te llamas? Hello, what's your name?
Me llamo Omar.My name is Omar.​​
Remember to use usted in more formal settings or when speaking to someone older than you.​
Hola, señor. ¿Cómo se llama usted?Hello, sir. What's your name?​

3.Ser vs. estar
Remember to use estar to describe things that are only temporarily true, like the location of people and things.​
Manuel está aquí.Manuel is here.​
You would also use estoy, estás, or está to talk about how people are feeling or doing.
¡Yo estoy cansada! I am tired!
Use ser for more permanent descriptions, like explaining what someone is like.
Mi hermano es inteligente.My brother is intelligent.
You would also use soy, eres, or es to say where people are from.​
Yo soy de los Estados Unidos. I am from the United States.​

4.Buenos días, señor
In Spanish, we use words like señor, señora, and señorita to show respect to someone.
These words are often followed by the person's last name when you know it.​
Señora is generally for married women, while señorita is usually for young women or unmarried women.
Señor can be used for any man.
If you are addressing people directly, you will just use señor, señora, and señorita,
 but if you are speaking of them, you'll have to use words like el and la before these titles.​
Señor Sánchez, ¿cómo está usted?Mr. Sánchez, how are you?​​
El señor Pérez es americano.Mr. Pérez is American.​


LESSON 11
1.Stress
All words in Spanish have one syllable that is pronounced with extra emphasis. This is called stress. An accent mark tells you which syllable should be stressed.
café ca‑FE
teléfono te‑LE‑fo‑no
If there is no accent mark, the second‑to‑last syllable usually receives the stress.
dinero di‑NE‑ro
maleta ma‑LE‑ta

2.¿Quieres más agua?​
Remember that in Spanish, verbs change depending on the person.
subject                      verb
yo                        necesito
tú                        necesitas
él/ ella/ usted            necesita


LESSON 12
1.Days of the week
In Spanish, the days of the week are not capitalized.
Hoy es lunes. Today is Monday.​
To say on Monday or on Saturday, use el before the day of the week.
La fiesta es el viernes. The party is on Friday.​

2.Spanish sounds
（1）At the beginning of sentences, the letters b and v are both pronounced like an English b.
boleto, viernes. As in bean (beginning of sentence).
（2）But in the middle of words or sentences, they often sound like a hybrid between b and v.
escribes, jueves.As in van but with the two lips touching   (middle of word or sentence).
（3）In Spanish, double l (ll) sounds similar to y in the English word “yes”, though you may hear some Spanish speakers pronounce ll as in “vision”, “shop”, or “jar.”​
calle, llamo As in yes.

3.¡La fiesta es muy divertida!​
You've seen that when talking about people, the ending of an adjective depends on the person's gender. For example, Pedro es mexicano, but María es mexicana.
This applies not only to people, but to any noun!
El partido de fútbol es muy divertido.The soccer game is very fun.​
¡La fiesta es muy divertida!The party is very fun!​

LESSON 13(People 2)
1.Stressed out?
Let's talk more about stress! When there is no accent mark and a word ends in a vowel, n, or s, the emphasis goes to the second‑to‑last syllable.
ensalada en‑sa‑LA‑da
examen  e‑XA‑men
comes   CO‑mes
But! If there is no accent mark and a word ends in a consonant(other than n or s), the last syllable is stressed.
hotel ho‑TEL
reloj re‑LOJ
escribir es‑cri‑BIR

2.Spanish sounds
There's a difference between n and ñ! A Spanish n is pronounced the same as the letter n in English.
necesito, banana.As in nest.
But ñ is a little tricky! It almost sounds like ny in “canyon”.
mañana, cumpleaños. As in canyon.


LESSON 14
1.¡Yo soy estudiante!
In English, we say I am a teacher, but in Spanish, you don't need to use a when talking about occupations.
Mi hermana es médica.My sister is a doctor.
Mi amigo es profesor.My friend is a professor.

2.Mi amiga es maestra
Similar to waiter and waitress in English, many occupation words in Spanish change depending on the gender of the person.
Mi amiga es maestra.My friend is a teacher.


LESSON 15
1.Add an s!
Differentiating between one thing and many things in Spanish works just like in English. Simply add an s to the end of the word!
libro   book
libros  books

2.Este vs. esta
In Spanish, the word for this changes depending on the gender of the noun it goes with.
Este libro es divertido.This book is fun.
Yo trabajo en esta biblioteca.I work in this library.


LESSON 16(Agreement)
1.Let’s talk about Agreement!​
Words describing a noun should agree, or match, in their gender.​
un niño mexicano.el niño americano
una niña mexicana.la niña americana


LESSON 17
1.Age
In English, we say I am sixteen years old. But in Spanish, you'd say I have sixteen years.
El bebé tiene un año.The baby is one year old.
Yo tengo ocho años.I am eight years old.

2.Numbers
1 ‑uno
2 ‑dos
3 ‑tres
4 ‑cuatro
5 ‑cinco
6 ‑seis
7 ‑siete
8 ‑ocho
9 ‑nueve
10 ‑ diez

3.Spanish sounds
Heads up! In Spanish, the letter g has a special sound when followed by e or i.
gato, pregunta.As in go.
mágico, inteligente
hat's right! It's the same sound as Spanish j!


LESSON 18(Work)
1.Los and las
When referring to more than one person or thing, el becomes los.
el bolígrafo.the pen
los bolígrafos.the pens
And la becomes las.
la carta.the letter
las cartas.the letters

2.What's the deal with su?
Su can mean a few different things! Context will help you understand which meaning is intended!
su dinero.her money
su negocio.their business
¡Su café, señor!Your coffee, sir!


LESSON 19
1.¡Estoy emocionado!
Remember that estar is used for temporary conditions, like how people are feeling or doing.
¡Duo está triste!Duo is sad!
Yo estoy aburrido en el trabajo.I am bored at work.
Meanwhile, ser is used for more permanent descriptions, like where someone is from or what they are like.
Mi esposo es muy bajo.My husband is very short.
Yo soy española.I am Spanish.

2.¿Mañana por la mañana?
Mañana means both tomorrow and morning.
¡Mañana es mi cumpleaños!Tomorrow is my birthday!
Esta mañana estoy muy cansada.This morning I am very tired.

3.¡Me siento enfermo!
Some Spanish verbs like me llamo and te sientes always need an extra little word before them.
Me llamo Julia.My name is Julia.
¿Cómo te sientes? How do you feel?
¿Señor, cómo se llama usted? Sir, what is your name?


LESSON 20(People 4)
1.Nosotras hablamos español
Remember that verbs change depending on the person. They also change when there is more than one person!
subject                 verb (hablar)
yo                      hablo
tú                      hablas
él / ella / usted       habla
nosotros/nosotras       hablamos
ellos/ellas/ustedes     hablan
2.To be or not to be?

The verb ser is very special! It has its own forms and it doesn't follow the regular patterns.
subject                 verb (ser)
yo                      soy
tú                      eres
él / ella / usted       es
nosotros/nosotras       somos
ellos/ellas/ustedes     son

3.Los hombres y las mujeres
You already saw how you can add an ‑s to make a word plural.
los hombres.the men
But when a word ends in a consonant, you'll need to add ‑es.
las mujeres .the women


LESSON 21
1.Zapatos verdes
Add ‑s to both the adjective and the noun if a word is plural!
el zapato verde.the green shoe
los zapatos verdes.the green shoes

2.Mi vs. mis
In English, we say my shirt and my shirts. But in Spanish, if there is more than one shirt, you would add ‑s also to words like my, your, and her.
mi/tu/su + camisa.my / your / his / her + shirt
mis/tus/sus+ camisas.my / your + shirts


LESSON 22
1.¿Dónde estás?​
You already saw how estar can be used to describe temporary conditions. You can also use estar to talk about the location of places, objects, or people. ​
Nosotras estamos en el parque.We are in the park.
El hospital está en la ciudad.The hospital is in the city.​

2.Al and del
In Spanish, you never say de el. Instead, these words are combined together into del.​
Estamos cerca del café ahora.We are close to the cafe now.
Similarly, a and el are always combined together into al.​
Quiero ir al aeropuerto en la mañana.I want to go to the airport in the morning.
But de and a don't combine with la, los, or las.
Estamos cerca de la calle.We are close to the street.
¿Por qué no quieres ir a los parques?Why don't you want to go to the parks?


LESSON 23(Leisure)
1.Stem‑changing verbs
In some Spanish verbs, the middle vowel changes. For example, we say querer, but yo quiero and él quiere. ​
These are the so‑called e‑to‑ie verbs. But watch out! The e doesn't change in the nosotros/ nosotrasform.​
subject                     verb(querer) (want)
yo                          quiero
tú                          quieres
él/ella/usted               quiere
nosotros/nosotras           queremos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         quieren


LESSON 24
1.Let’s talk about Present Tense!​
Notice the three different patterns for verbs like hablar, comer, or vivir.​

subject                     verb(hablar) (speak)
yo                          hablo       ar->o
tú                          hablas      ar->as
él/ella/usted               habla       ar->a
nosotros/nosotras           hablamos    ar->amos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         hablan      ar->an

subject                     verb(comer) (eat)
yo                          como       er->o
tú                          comes      er->es
él/ella/usted               come       er->e
nosotros/nosotras           comemos    er->emos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         comen      er->en

subject                     verb(vivir) (live)
yo                          vivo       ir->o
tú                          vives      ir->es
él/ella/usted               vive       ir->e
nosotros/nosotras           vivimos    ir->imos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         viven      ir->en


LESSON 25(Activities)
1.Happy endings
The basic form of a verb is called an infinitive. For example, hablar (to speak), comer (to eat), and escribir (to write) are all infinitives.
Spanish has three verb groups: verbs ending in ‑ar, ‑er, or ‑ir. These are the ending patterns for each group.



LESSON 26
1.¡Me gusta Duolingo!
In English, we say I like chocolate, but in Spanish you'd say something more like To me chocolate is pleasing.
Me gusta el chocolate.I like chocolate.
¿Te gusta nadar en la piscina?Do you like swimming in the pool?

2.La bicicleta de Matthew
In English, we say Matthew's bicycle to show that the bicycle belongs to Matthew. But in Spanish, you'd say la bicicleta de Matthew, which literally means the bicycle of Matthew.
La bicicleta de Matthew es roja.Matthew's bicycle is red.
El vestido de Sandra es muy elegante.Sandra's dress is very elegant.


LESSON 27(Routines)
1.Special verbs
Some common verbs, like ir, don't follow the regular patterns we've seen.
subject                     verb(ir) (go)
yo                          voy
tú                          vas
él/ella/usted               va
nosotros/nosotras           vamos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         van
2.Me ducho todos los días

Remember, some Spanish verbs always need a me, te, or se before them.
Yo siempre me levanto a las ocho. I always get up at eight.
¡Mi perro nunca se ducha! My dog never showers!

3.A las once
Use ¿A qué hora…? to ask what time something is going to happen.
¿A qué hora vas a la biblioteca? What time are you going to the library?
And you can answer using a las plus an hour.
Voy a la biblioteca a las once. I am going to the library at eleven.

4.¡Tengo que estudiar!
When you have to do something in Spanish, use tener que, plus the infinitive form of what you have to do.
¿Cuándo tienes que ir a la oficina? When do you have to go to the office?
Ana tiene que estudiar. Ana has to study.


LESSON 28
1.¡Hay un oso en la cocina!
Hay means there is or there are. It never changes form.
¡Hay un oso en la cocina! There is a bear in the kitchen!
Hay dos ventanas pequeñas en el baño. There are two small windows in the bathroom.

2.Gender Nouns ending in ‑o are usually masculine, and nouns ending in ‑a are usually feminine.
But what about words that end in consonants? Luckily, most of them are still predictable!
masculine               feminine
el hospital             la pared
el tenedor              la habitación
                        la televisión
                        la costumbre
                        la luz

However, languages and days of the week are always masculine, no matter what letter they end with.
el español Spanish
el inglés English
el lunes Monday
el sábado Saturday
3.Ese vs. esa

In Spanish, the word for that changes depending on the gender of the noun it goes with.
ese dormitorio.that bedroom​
esa nevera.that fridge​
The word for those changes depending on gender as well.
esos baños.those bathrooms​
esas camisas.those shirts​


LESSON 29
1.Quisiera
A polite way to ask for something in Spanish is quisiera.
Quisiera un café sin azúcar.I would like a coffee without sugar.
Quisiera otra bebida, por favor.I would like another drink, please.


LESSON 30 (Family 3)
1.¡Nos gusta Duolingo!
We've seen that Me gusta escuchar música means I like to listen to music.
To talk about what we like, use nos gusta.
Nos gusta ir al cine.We like to go to the movies.​
And to talk about what someone else likes, use le gusta.
Le gusta escuchar música.She likes to listen to music.​
If you want to give the name of the person who likes something, you need to use a, followed by their name, followed by le gusta.
A Miguel le gusta viajar.Miguel likes traveling.

2.¿Cómo se llaman?
To talk about the names of more than one person, use se llaman.
¿Cómo se llaman tus padres, Felipe?What are your parents' names, Felipe?​​
e.g. Mis padres se llaman Isabel y Renato.My parents' names are Isabel and Renato.​


LESSON 31
1.Numbers
When you’re counting from 16 to 19, you combine diez with another number. For example, diez y ocho becomes dieciocho!
16 ‑ dieciséis
17 ‑ diecisiete
18 ‑ dieciocho
19 ‑ diecinueve
20 ‑ veinte

2.¿Cuánto cuesta?
To ask How much does it cost?, say  ¿Cuánto cuesta?
e.g. ¿Cuánto cuesta el vestido negro? How much does the black dress cost?
e.g. El vestido negro cuesta veinte dólares.The black dress costs twenty dollars.
If you're asking about more than one thing, use cuestan instead.
e.g. ¿Cuánto cuestan estos zapatos? How much do these shoes cost?
e.g. Esos zapatos cuestan diecinueve dólares. Those shoes cost nineteen dollars.

3.¿Para mí?
After words like para, use mí or ti to say for me or for you.
e.g. ¿Esta camisa es para mí? Is this shirt for me?
e.g. Papá, quisiera comprar algo para ti. Dad, I would like to buy something for you.


LESSON 32
1.La oficina es grande y está abierta
Don't let ser and estar scare you! You can remember it this way: pretend that the t in estar is for temporary!
e.g. Yo estoy muy ocupado hoy.I am very busy today.​
e.g. Esta oficina es grande.  This office is big.​


LESSON 33
1.Let’s talk about Ser vs. Estar!
Use forms of ser for descriptions of people and things.​​
e.g. El gato es negro.
​​
Use forms of estar for temporary states of being and locations.​​
e.g. El gato está contento.
e.g. ​El gato está en la mesa.
​

LESSON 34 (Recreation)
1.¿A ustedes les gusta el español?
We've seen that a Eduardo le gusta means Eduardo likes and nos gusta means we like.
To talk about what multiple people like, use les gusta.
e.g. Les gusta ir al parque. They like going to the park.

2.A mí me gusta la música​
It’s also common to hear a mí me gusta or a ellos les gusta.
e.g. A mí me gusta ir de compras. I like shopping.
e.g. ¿A ti te gusta correr en el parque? Do you like running in the park?
Sometimes this is used to emphasize who it is who likes something. But sometimes it’s used just because!


LESSON 35
1.Yo visito a Juan​
When you're talking about people in Spanish, you should always add a between the verb and the person you are mentioning.​
e.g. Yo siempre visito el museo. I always visit the museum.
e.g. Yo visito a Juan. I visit Juan.

2.Special verbs ​
Some verbs are special only in the yo form, while all the other forms follow the regular pattern.​
subject                     verb(conocer) (to know / to meet)
yo                          conozco
tú                          conoces
él/ella/usted               conoce
nosotros/nosotras           conocemos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         conocen

3.¿Conoces muchos países?
When conocer is used to talk about a city or country, it means to be familiar with.
e.g. Nosotros conocemos Nueva York. We are familiar with New York.
When conocer means to know or meet a person, it's always followed by a.​
e.g. ¿Conoces a Héctor? Do you know Hector?


LESSON 36 (Phrases 2)
1.Tener
Remember that the verb querer can look different in certain forms, with its e changing to ie (like yo quiero and tú quieres). Tener does the same thing!
e.g. ¿Cuántos años tienes tú? How old are you?​
But tener also has a special yo form: tengo!
subject                     verb(tener) (have)
yo                          tengo
tú                          tienes
él/ella/usted               tiene
nosotros/nosotras           tenemos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         tienen
Remember, in the nosotros / nosotras form, the e doesn’t change.

2.¡Tengo hambre(hunger)!
Tener is often used in expressions where we use to be in English.
e.g. Tengo frío. I'm cold.
e.g. Tengo calor.I'm hot.
e.g. Tengo hambre.I'm hungry.
e.g. Tengo sed.I'm thirsty.
e.g. Tengo miedo.I'm afraid.
e.g. Tengo sueño.I'm sleepy.
Tener is used in lots of Spanish expressions!​
e.g. Tengo puesto un abrigo.I have on a coat.​
e.g. Tengo ganas de bailar.I feel like dancing.​


LESSON 37
1.¡Duolingo nos ayuda!
In English, we say You know me or They know us. In Spanish, words like me or nos come before the verb, not after!​
e.g Tú me ayudas. You help me.
e.g Mis padres siempre nos ayudan. My parents always help us.

2.¿Me quieres o me amas?
Te quiero and te amo both mean I love you. So what's the difference?
In general, you’ll use te quiero in casual moments, with close friends, or extended family. ​
e.g. Adiós, ¡te quiero!​ Goodbye, I love you!
Te amo is generally reserved for romantic partners or immediate family. It's used in more serious situations.
e.g. ¡Te amo! I love you!


LESSON 38 (Routines 2)
1.Hacer and salir​
Hacer and salir are special verbs. They follow a similar pattern for the yo form.
subject                     verb(hacer) (to do/ to make)        verb salir(to leave)
yo                          hago                                salgo
tú                          haces                               sales
él/ella/usted               hace                                sale
nosotros/nosotras           hacemos                             salimos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         hacen                               salen

2.¡Quiero levantarme tarde!
You've already seen that tarde means afternoon or evening.
e.g. Mi madre siempre trabaja en la tarde.​ My mother always works in the afternoon.​
But tarde also means late!​
e.g. Siempre me levanto tarde en la mañana. I always get up late in the morning.
e.g. Mis padres siempre comen tarde en la tarde. My parents always eat late in the evening.


LESSON 39
1.Stem‑changing verbs
In some verbs, like almorzar(to have lunch) and poder (can), the o changes to ue in most of their forms. ​
e.g. Los chicos almuerzan en la escuela.​ The boys eat lunch at school.​
Like for other stem‑changing verbs, the nosotros  / nosotras form is the odd one out!​
subject                     verb(almorzar) (to have lunch)      verb poder(can)
yo                          almuerzo                                puedo
tú                          almuerzas                               puedes
él/ella/usted               almuerza                                puede
nosotros/nosotras           almorzamos                              podemos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         almuerzan                               pueden

2.No entiendo
Another group of stem‑changing verbs changes from e to ie. But remember to keep an eye on nosotros and nosotras!
subject                     verb(cerrar) (to close)               verb entender(to understand)
yo                          cierro                                entiendo
tú                          cierras                               entiendes
él/ella/usted               cierra                                entiende
nosotros/nosotras           cerramos                              entendemos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         cierran                               entienden


LESSON 40 (Weather)
1.¿Qué tiempo hace?
To talk about the weather in English, we usually say It's hot or It's windy. In Spanish, you don't need words like it!
e.g. Nieva mucho en enero. It snows a lot in January.
e.g. Llueve mucho hoy. It's raining a lot today.
A lot of weather phrases begin with hace.​
e.g. Hace frío.It's cold.
e.g. Hace calor.It's hot.
e.g. Hace sol.It's sunny.
e.g. Hace viento.It's windy.
e.g. Hace buen tiempo.It's good weather.
e.g. Hace mal tiempo.It's bad weather.

2.Months
 Months aren't capitalized in Spanish!
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en enero.I have vacation in January.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en febrero.I have vacation in February.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en marzo.I have vacation in March.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en abril.I have vacation in April.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en mayo.I have vacation in May.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en junio.I have vacation in June.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en julio.I have vacation in July.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en agosto.I have vacation in August.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en septiembre.I have vacation in September.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en octubre.I have vacation in October.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en noviembre.I have vacation in November.
e.g. Tengo vacaciones en diciembre.I have vacation in December.


LESSON 41 (Stem Changes)
1.Let’s talk about Stem Changing Verbs!​
Some verbs use the regular endings, but have a vowel change (except in the nosotros form). For example, o changes to ue, or e changes to ie.​
subject                     verb(poder) (to be able to)(can)
yo                          puedo
tú                          puedes
él/ella/usted               puede
nosotros/nosotras           podemos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         pueden

subject                     verb(perder) (to lose)
yo                          pierdo
tú                          pierdes
él/ella/usted               pierde
nosotros/nosotras           perdemos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         pierden


LESSON 42 (Interests)
1.¡Me interesa mucho Duolingo!
Interesar follows the same pattern as gustar and encantar.
Le gusta el fútbol.​He likes soccer.​
Le interesa la música.She is interested in music.

(A mí) me interesa la música.I am interested in music.
(A ti) te interesa la música.You are interested in music.
(A él) le interesa la música.He is interested in music.
(A nosotros) nos interesa la música.We are interested in music.
(A ellos) les interesa la música.They are interested in music.


LESSON 43 (Basic Info)
1.¡No lo sé!
Remember, some verbs have special yo forms.
subject                     verb(saber) (to know)
yo                          sé
tú                          sabes
él/ella/usted               sabe
nosotros/nosotras           sabemos
ellos/ellas/ustedes         saben

2.¿Sabes hablar español?
You already saw that conocer(to meet/to know) means to know a person or a place.
e.g.¿Conoces a mi madre?​Do you know my mother?​

Use saber to talk about knowing information or how to do something.
e.g. ¿Sabes quién vive aquí?Do you know who lives here?
e.g. Yo sé cocinar. I know how to cook.

3.¿Cómo se dice…?
How do you say How do you say…? The answer is  ¿Cómo se dice…? Notice that this phrase always needs se!
e.g. ¿Cómo se dice gato en francés?​   How do you say cat in French?​
e.g. ¿Cómo se dice adiós en italiano?​  How do you say goodbye in Italian?​
You can use ¿Cómo se escribe…? to ask How do you write…?
e.g. ¿Cómo se escribe perro en español?​ How do you write dog in Spanish?​


LESSON 44 (How Pretty)
1.To say that something is more beautiful than or less interesting than something else, you can use the phrase más… que or menos… que.
e.g. El perro es más perezoso que el gato.The dog is lazier than the cat.
e.g. Este vestido es menos caro que los pantalones.This dress is less expensive than the pants.

If two things are the same, use tan… como.
e.g. María es tan responsable como Sara.María is as responsible as Sara.
e.g. Somos tan altos como tú.We are as tall as you.

2.¿Mejor o peor?
In English, we don’t say more good — we say better. Similarly, certain adjectives in Spanish have special forms.
e.g. Este abrigo es mejor que la chaqueta.This coat is better than the jacket.
e.g. La película es peor que el libro.The movie is worse than the book.

3.¡El mejor!
To say the most in Spanish, use el más or la más before an adjective.
e.g. Pablo es el más inteligente de la clase.Pablo is the most intelligent in the class.
e.g. Sara es la más joven de la familia.​ Sara is the youngest in the family.​

And you can use el mejor and el peor to say the best and the worst!​
e.g. Este es el mejor curso de la universidad. This is the best course in the university.
e.g. ¡Este libro es el peor! This book is the worst!


LESSON 44 (Travel 4)
1.Making plans
If you are going to do something in the future, use a form of ir, plus a, then an infinitive form of what you’re doing. ​
e.g. Mañana voy a viajar a México.​Tomorrow I am going to travel to Mexico.
e.g. Vamos a visitar a nuestros padres.We're going to visit our parents.
e.g. Ella va a viajar en avión.​She is going to travel by plane.​

2.Spanish sounds
Spanish x usually sounds just like x in the English word taxi.
e.g. examen. As in taxi.
An exception is México! The x here is like a Spanish j. In fact, another spelling for México is Méjico!
The Spanish z usually sounds like an English s.​
e.g. zapato. As in see.

3.Menos cuarto
Cuarto refers to a quarter of an hour (15 minutes) in Spanish.
e.g. Vamos a llegar a las seis y cuarto.We are going to arrive at quarter past six.​
In English, we say It's quarter to five. In Spanish you'd say It's five minus a quarter.​
e.g. Son las cinco menos cuarto.​It is quarter to five.​


LESSON 44 (Interests 2)
1.¡Me gustan los postres!
To say you like a single thing, say me gusta. For multiple things, use gustan!
e.g. Me gusta el sándwich.I like the sandwich.
e.g. Me gustan los sándwiches.I like sandwiches.
This goes for all verbs like gustar, interesar,and encantar.
e.g. Me encantan los vinos españoles.​I love Spanish wines.​
e.g. ¿Te interesan esos libros?​Are you interested in those books?​

2.¡Los osos son inteligentes!






































Let’s talk about Ser vs. Estar!
Use forms of ser for descriptions of people and things.​​
1.El gato es negro.
​​
Use forms of estar for temporary states of being and locations.​​
1.El gato está contento.
2.El gato está en la mesa.


陈述式-现在时 语法(Indicativo presente)	虚拟式-现在时 语法(Subjuntivo presente)
yo	soy   sea
tú	eres   seas
él	es   sea
nos.	somos   seamos
vos.	sois   seáis
ellos	son   sean


estamos